I remember reading a textbook for
photography the fine art of photography
it was a fine arts textbook talking
about methods and approaches to artistic
photography and had a fascinating
chapter where the author said look we
researched the hell out of this concept
of composition we went through all of
the scientific literature and it turns
out that composition is just a cultural
concept there is no scientific basis
through it whatsoever and they went
through all these different studies
people are done of sitting people down
and measuring where their eyes looked of
testing the hypothesis presented by
different theorists different theorists
you know really this is getting into art
history and theory of modern art what
have you different ideas people had that
the idea of good composition could be
broken down to a specific scientific
formula of what makes up the parts of a
photograph or painting and they
concluded look we did the research and
you can't the sciences just don't tell
us what we want to know about this topic
and yesterday I was looking at we both
read together actually this article give
a link below the video which is direct
action everywhere is 100 attempts to
muse on philosophize about and reflect
on social science research and its role
in the future of vegan activism now you
know this is a good article by direct
action everywhere standards a lot of DXE
stuff I think is really garbage and I
give it credit above all else for
keeping it real it's not lying to you
it's not exaggerating their position and
a lot of their material I do find
dishonest first and foremost it opens up
by being honest about the fact that
these scientific studies do not tell
them what they want to know do not give
them the kind of conclusions they're
looking for do you not give them the
kind of evidence they're looking for and
even when they do provide some evidence
it's really questionable how applicable
that evidence is to veganism
so if you've got evidence about a
significantly different a political
movement a movement that's advocating
for an oppressed and downtrodden ethnic
minority can you really take those
conclusions and apply the veganism how
applicable how comparable are these
examples but throughout you know the
number of studies they can appeal to are
very very limited and as this article
admits many other articles do know
the conclusions of these scientific
studies are themselves astoundingly
vague and open more than one
interpretation you can take it in more
than one direction they seem to be
telling you very often that their own
conclusions can hardly be used as
recommendations we're planning further
option beyond very very broad heuristic
guidelines as to how to approach me what
have you
toward the end of the article there's a
really interesting admission to because
this is coming from someone who still is
a direct action everywhere supporter
where this person says that they think
they were too dismissive in the past of
what they call a humanistic approach to
activism and use this humanistic
activism I think was that we thank you
thank you that's what she's here for
humane education I forgot and what they
mean by humane education interestingly
is having relaxed conversation with
people face-to-face in the doorstep so
not doing organized protests not
aggressive disruptions not angry
emotionally overwrought forms of street
theatre but of just talking to people in
open-minded way so the interesting thing
is if you don't know the backstory
direct action everywhere was really
founded by Wayne Siong because of his
frustration with exactly those methods
he felt that after years of handing out
cookies and pamphlets and inviting
people to attend doctor documentary film
nights that that was ineffective he
rejected what's here termed humane
education and he adopted instead this
slightly radical method of disruption
etc but disruption is their preferred
term so here instead at the end of this
article after doing this survey of all
of the scientific literature and
basically telling us that science
doesn't measure what we want to measure
here as with this question of the arts
what is good composition in a painting
or a photograph maybe that's not a
question the scientist can answer right
what is effective activism maybe it's
actually an inherently unscientific
question and therefore not going to find
Santa Fe answers and will we come back
to or actually exactly the sort of
methods the direct action evil rejects
and that they were
were very much founded with a with a
mission to reject finally here you know
I want to mention have had some email
correspondence with an ex-member of DXE
a former supportive directorship where
we stopped participating with them in
about 2013 and I think the single most
important reason she gave for why she
stopped was simply the toll it was
taking on her what effect it was having
on her emotionally as the protester
right
these emotionally overwrought screaming
outbursts statements of rage and outrage
and what have you
some people feel awkward and feel
they're ridiculous and some people feel
exhausted and once you've done them ten
times how's it going to feel the 11th
time I was gonna feel the 100th time or
what have you I remember talking years
ago with Hania about that Hannya mania
well-known vegan youtuber here and you
know I just have to say those are
questions that are really worth asking
you shouldn't feel ashamed of that you
shouldn't feel self-indulgent you
shouldn't feel lazy and there are a lot
of videos out there trying to shame you
and try to make you feel lazy because
you're not going to a protest every
Sunday there's a hilarious one just put
up by John sack arse the legend John
sackers John sack arse can make anything
creepy and disturbing you never do any
activism I'm doing my part just by being
vegan being vegan isn't enough we need
to speak up for the animals too so it's
going to happen at this protest on
Sunday are you going to yell at people
and get arrested well sometimes I need
to raise my voice to be heard but if
you're not comfortable doing that you
can just pass out leaflets and talk to
people
okay I'll hand out a few leaflets we'll
see how it goes I know she hadn't been
wearing that vegan t-shirt I bought you
it was nice of you to buy that for me
but I don't think I'll wear it if people
find out I'm a vegan they'll think I'm a
weirdo john sack cars can make anything
creepy and disturbing he makes he makes
videos about vegan romance with vegan
date and creepy and disturbing and he
kicks up you makes discussions about
effective activism creepy and disturbing
to play checkers another you can hear my
girlfriend laughing in the background
butyou're decker said this video and you
know he's saying oh it's not enough to
just be a dietary vegan if you don't get
out and protest every Sunday who is
going to speak for the animals well who
indeed um
different people have different
opportunities in life I'm doing what I
can from the circumstances I'm living in
I'm so critical about that but I'm
currently teaching University students
and living in China and one of the
things I could do was writing a story
book and trying to get that Illustrated
and published a story book that directly
addresses and propounds veganism um
somebody else is going to be an
architect someone who's made a lot of
money in the tech sector someone who
profession in terms of their professions
worth of Education has different options
and somebody else is going to be working
a full-time job in a factory and so on
and so forth but if I'm being all the
way real with you for me all the way
honest with you when I look at the right
to action everywhere I see this as a
quest that tried to cynically employ
social science research to justify a
preconceived notion they already have of
what effective activism is supposed to
be of what a street protest is supposed
to be of what progress in any in any in
any social justice movement is supposed
to be and they think of veganism as a
social justice movement whereas I do not
and I think in the end we have this kind
of bitter irony that social science
research does not support and never did
support the strategic and tactical
decisions that they made and conversely
the toll that their approach has on the
members themselves would tend to
invalidate it if this is just something
emotionally exhausting for the
protesters themselves
you
keeping it all the way real whether
you're a factory worker or an architect
or you manage to make some money out of
trading you know internet-based stocks
on the stock market no matter what
position you're in in life age 14 to 64
I actually cannot imagine that you don't
have a better option then employing the
tactics that direct action everywhere
employees it's not food it's violence
[Applause]
individuals that they are
I can't imagine you don't have a better
option than running onto a baseball
field at a stadium being arrested thrown
in the back of a police van you know
running on the face with it with a with
a poster saying go V which is it's real
TAC they've done
I can't imagine one of the better option
than flying to China
stealing a dog from a dog meat festival
and then going to prison at least
briefly I know if they just spent the
night in prison getting arrested I can't
imagine that you don't have a better
option then the option they're
presenting you with no matter who you
are food it's violence you can't touch
her that's harassment
I'm not talking from I think you really
want to go places right now
[Music]
and if you take a look at the link below
this article you'll see I mean this this
article gives you an honest set of
reflections but the bottom line is the
social sciences never supported the
decisions they're making they never
could they never will support them and
when you're looking around in these
murky and indecisive conclusions that
social science research presents in many
cases not even applicable to veganism it
really just seems that were we're
looking in the wrong place for these
answers we're asking questions that are
fundamentally unscientific in the same
way that the fine arts may be looking
for something that the socials that the
hard sciences or geometry or what have
you or even psychology can't tell them
when they're trying to pin down what is
the difference between good and bad
composition ah ba Liu Yin